# CRUD-Front-End: Historical Profile Compiler

The front end of this historical profile compiler has aimed to create a basic and user-friendly graphical interface that fulfils the functionality for a CRUD application. The objective has been to allow users to compile several historical figures profiles with easy-to-use functionalities.

The HTML document consists of an input form with three labels that take in the attributes for the user's selected historical figure: a name, their (ancient) nationality, and a brief description. By utilising JavaScript, the front end has produced a card output layout (documentation extracted from Bootstrap and inspired by training example). This selected format has been chosen due to its highly user-friendly nature, which has allowed to connect every aspect of the required CRUD functionality in a simple and easy-to-follow layout. When submitting the attributes, the front end produces a card with the historical figure name as a title and inputs the nationality and description into the body of the card. All cards are displayed in a "Read" divider that compiles the cards in a 'deck' format. The cards contain two buttons: Update and Delete. These two functionalities allow the user to ammend and delete any profiles.

In JavaScript, two variables from the HTML file are initially instantiated to be used in the subsequent code. The first is the actual profile outputs for the user to read. The second is the Read divider in the HTML, which will display the compiled historical profiles in card format and which merges the Create, Read, Update and Delete functions of the project, all embodied into one card. The createProfile variable calls for a submission event that requests and receives a create/POST method whenever a user creates a new card in the input labels of the HTML. The function cardProfile creates a get request and constructs the body and structure of the cards by appending the attributes and functionalities (name, nationality, description, Update and Delete buttons). The functions deleteProfile (Delete) and profileUpdate (Update) have been created which similarly call for a DELETE and PUT requests. The former takes in a ID variable, whilst the latter takes in data (profile attributes) and an ID. These two functions are then appended as functional buttons into the card bodies, hence allowing the user to request and receive his/her chosen method by clicking the button. The Update button utilises popups as an input format, which pretty much reiterates the original three input labels in the create form. Upon submitting the changes, the application updates the object. This has been checked by consistently using the H2 database to ensure that the changes in were being recorded appropriately. All CRUD functionalities use arrow functions, as taught in the Academy, to optimise the use of code and its readability, mainly seen in the CRUD functionality requests, responses and error handlings. 

A basic CSS stlyesheet is used to style the front end of this CRUD applcation. The styling has mainly focused on easing user interactiveness. For instance, the input labels were expanded so the user could read the whole placeholder, whilst the font selected aimed to fit the historical appearance that this application aims to offer. 
